mgr/dashboard: document Prometheus' security model (#34902)
ceph/ceph: doc/mgr/dashboard.rst

Enabling the Embedding of Grafana Dashboards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Grafana`_ requires data from Prometheus. Although Grafana can use other data
sources, the Grafana dashboards we provide contain queries that are specific to

> `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_. Our Grafana dashboards therefore

Reviewer: Minor nit: move the URL to the first mentioning of Prometheus in Line 380 instead.

> require Prometheus as data source. The Ceph :ref:`mgr-prometheus` also only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
require Prometheus as the data source. The Ceph :ref:`mgr-prometheus` also only
```

exports its data in the Prometheus' common format. The Grafana dashboards rely
on metric names from the Prometheus module and `Node exporter
<https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/>`_. The Node exporter is a
separate application that provides machine metrics.

.. note::

  Prometheus' security model presumes that untrusted users have access to the
  Prometheus HTTP endpoint and logs. Untrusted users have access to all the
  (meta)data Prometheus collects that is contained in the database, plus a
  variety of operational and debugging information.

  However, Prometheus' HTTP API is limited to read-only operations.
  Configurations can *not* be changed using the API and secrets are not
  exposed. Moreover, Prometheus has some built-in measures to mitigate the
  impact of denial of service attacks.

  Please see `Prometheus' Security model
  <https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/security/>` for more detailed

>   information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  information.
```

Enabling the Embedding of Grafana Dashboards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

  Please note that Prometheus' security model presumes that untrusted users
  have access to the Prometheus HTTP endpoint and logs. They have access to
  all time series information contained in the database, plus a variety of
  operational/debugging information.
  

>   Though, Prometheus' HTTP API is, by default, limited to read-only
>   operations. Configurations cannot be changed using the API and secrets are

Reviewer: How about simplifying this part?
```suggestion
  However, Prometheus' HTTP API is limited to read-only operations by default.
  No configurations can be changed using the API and secrets are
```

>   not exposed. Also, Prometheus has some built-in measures to mitigate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  not exposed. Moreover, Prometheus has some built-in measures to mitigate the
```

Enabling the Embedding of Grafana Dashboards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Grafana <https://grafana.com/>`_ needs to request data from `Prometheus

> <https://prometheus.io/>`_. The Grafana dashboards we provide contain queries

Reviewer 3: For what? For enabling the mebedding of Grafana dashboards? if so, include that :) see suggestion below

Author: No, not for enabling the embedding of Grafana dashboards but for the dashboards itself to be displayed. Every widget in the dashboard requires information to be displayed in a widget. The queries contained in those dashboards are used by Grafana to retrieve the data from Prometheus. 

The thing I try to clarify here is that the dashboards/widgets contain Prometheus specific queries and can therefore not be used by another data source (or application) other than Prometheus. My explanation may wasn't as good as I intended it to be.

What do think of 
```
`Grafana`_ needs to request data from `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_.
The Grafana dashboards we provide contain queries that are specific to
Prometheus. Although Grafana can have other data sources, the Grafana
dashboards therefore only support Prometheus as data source.
```

I just added `therefore` in the last sentence.

> <https://prometheus.io/>`_. The Grafana dashboards we provide contain queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<https://prometheus.io/>`_ to enable the embedding of Grafana Dashboards. 
The Grafana dashboards provided contain queries

that are specific to Prometheus. Although Grafana can have other data sources,
the Grafana dashboards only support Prometheus as data source. The the Ceph
:ref:`mgr-prometheus` also only exports its data in the Prometheus' common
format. The Grafana Dashboards also rely on metric names from the Prometheus
module and `Node exporter <https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/>`_.
The Node exporter is a separate application that provides machine metrics.

.. note::

>   Please note that Prometheus' security model presumes that untrusted users

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Prometheus' security model presumes that untrusted users

>   have access to the Prometheus HTTP endpoint and logs. They have access to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  have access to the Prometheus HTTP endpoint and logs. Untrusted users have access to

>   all time series information contained in the database, plus a variety of

Reviewer 3: Same question as above regarding the meaning of "all time series information"?

Author: Same answer as above :)

>   operational/debugging information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  operational and debugging information.

  However, Prometheus' HTTP API is limited to read-only operations. No

>   configurations can be changed using the API and secrets are not exposed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  However, Prometheus' HTTP API is limited to read-only operations. Configurations
  can *not* be changed using the API and secrets can not be exposed.
